---
date: 2012-01-24T17:37:00-04:00
title: "Build Season Update: Week 2"

---

Would you look at that! It's already the start of the third week of this season
of *FIRST* competition. That means most teams are wrapping up their designs and
have begun prototyping their various creative ideas.

The Hitchhikers are no exception. The design for our robot is in its final
stages and we've begun testing several designs for our shooting mechanism that
will adorn the top of our robot. Our first design, a tube, resulted in limited
success. It did move basketballs from the inside of the robot to the outside,
but it did not do so with a high velocity that would be required for long shots.

But our second design, a wheel-based spinner, has been far more successful.
Based on a design popularized shortly after kickoff, we used four KOP wheels to
launch the basketballs up to thirty feet away, reaching heights of nearly
fifteen feet. These tests were recorded and can be seenÂ [here](
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YoqqYIMrR7c).

On the programming front, our programming team has as well taken some important
steps toward a successful robot. Today they culminated the work of the past two
weeks of interpreting, testing, and modifying a tracking program for the camera
with several successful trials of tracking and approaching the retroreflective
rectangle on the backboard.

We also received a partial set of field elements as we closed up today. We now
have a ramp and a bump, and we will soon have a set of basketball hoops. These
were made by several of our mentors (many thanks to them for their hard work)
and we can't wait to get back and test our robot out on them.

It's currently sixty days until our first regional, but significantly less until
ship. We'll keep working feverishly on our robot and do our best to hitchhike to
a successful competition in South Carolina.
